# UX Project
## Lindsey Mardona - Digital Humanities 110 - Spring 2022
### Assignment 09: Pitch

# Materials #
The deployment of the web documentation can be accessed [here](https://lindseymardona.github.io/22s-dh110/).\
The pitch video can be accessed [here](https://youtu.be/G9QvFX7EuBQ).

# Conclusions #
Prior to taking this class, I had no experience with the UX design process. I definitely underestimated just how tedious it was; I certainly didn't expect to be doing as much user testing as I ended up doing for this class, though in hindsight, it definitely makes a lot of sense. User interface and the user experience are things that are user-centric; the user should be the focus and should always be considered at every step and when any decisions are made. There really is no better way to know if you're hitting the mark or what you need to do better than to ask and/or observe the user directly. I definitely also found it really fascinating how different types of evaluation and testing could be utilized to extract information from various perspectives which could then be used going forward in the design process. However, again, they were all very tedious and time consuming; designing the materials to test with always took many, many hours, and then the testing and analysis of always took another few hours.

It isn't just the testing that's tedious either, and that's probably partially because at every step of the process, we should constantly be looking for ways to continously improve what we're working on. The low-fidelity prototype, which was hand drawn, was extremely time consuming, and I don't even want to begin to imagine what it would have been like to do that on paper considering how many revisions I made while designing and drawing wireframes on my iPad. (There were a lot of changes as I thought through the designs!) The high-fidelity prototype might have been even worse. Figma was very daunting to begin to navigate. The in class demonstrations felt so easy to do because of the extremely simple task those walkthroughs were meant to execute, and then going on to create the high-fidelity prototype was a very overwhelming experience. The number of layers that there ended up being and the way they multiplied with every frame was very overwhelming, and it made my Figma lag a lot. I do think that it would have been much easier had I been designing a mobile app instead, because many of the other works I've seen did some sort of calibration or personalization quiz, or log in and sign up functionality, since it's on a mobile app and they can get away with doing that. Those are tasks that I think would have been really easy to do had I not been working on a website. The downfall of making a website is I know that I personally hate (and others definitely hate as well) websites that force you to sign up before you can explore and/or use the functionality and features that they have to offer. It turns me away from the site immediately and makes me want to find a different service for my needs. Using that logic as well as the fact that there were far more urgent usability shortcomings that should be addressed first, a log in screen just didn't really make sense to implement. I am very grateful and fortunate for the fact that I had a friend who is an actual UX designer help guide me through Figma a little bit beyond what had been covered in class. She taught me more about streamlining the design process, and things like toggling default and inactive states, auto layout, and groups consisting of groups of components were very difficult to understand but made the overall process much smoother when modifying the wireframes for the wireflow. Even learning about these tools that Figma offers on a basic level took so many hours, and I'm not even sure I understand it well. I really don't want to think about how it would have turned out if I didn't learn about those tools, though. 

However, going through this design process definitely helped me understand and be more aware of usability as a whole a lot better. Previously, I understood the concept of usability as a general idea, but what I didn't realize was how structured the pursuit of usability really was. From the analysis of the 10 usability heuristics, to GUI design principles, to tools like contrast checkers — all of these things were concepts I had never knew existed, let alone thought about and implemented. Thinking about usability heuristics like consistency, visibility of system status, and error prevention are all things that I am far more conscious about now, and it has certainly carried over in other areas (for example, in my other somewhat relevant class, ASIA AM 191A, which is a web dev and GIS class). I also actually thought that it was really cool that in my heuristic analysis of Songsterr, I critiqued the lack of error prevention in clicking paywall-locked music-learning and playback functionality (visible in the screenshots I took of the site at the time), and when I went back to the site a week later, the exact changes that I had recommended to address this (adding a symbol to indicate which features were premium membership only) had actually been implemented in that time. Getting confirmation that some professional UX designer for Songsterr (which actually has a very beautiful and clean interface) out there agreed with my critiques was just very validating.

I do think that I would prefer the development side of UI/UX. I thought there would be a lot more programming involved, but I realized that there's a lot to the UI/UX process that had never even crossed my mind. However, an understanding of the other side is undoubtedly very valuable, and regardless of where I end up in the tech field, I believe that this sort of conscientiousness about usability and design will be beneficial in the pursuit of making technology and digital tools accessible for everyone.
